Can you move some of these around as you edit them?
Of course. You've got some topics that you wrote
down. Please share those.
It'll work that way, huh? I'm hooked up. I wanted to
mention something. You asked me about people that
had supported me through these early years, and
one I definitely wanted to mention was George
Kunze. because he was the graduate dean at that
time. And I'd be remiss if I didn't mention him. And
I've always been one Haskell that kind of said, the
administrator's a nice figurehead, but if you can
get along good with his secretary, you got the job
half made. And Jane Thompson was always one who
would welcome me and listen and help me. arrange
whatever needed to be done to make it work well. So I
really wanted to mention Kunze. In relation to
Kunze, as far as you were concerned in program
quality and development, what role did the
graduate dean play?
You mean other than just strictly rubber stamping
approval or disapproval, I think? I think he did an
excellent job of trying to minimize conflicts and
overlaps. That was the most important thing I saw.
And if he sensed that there would be a problem in
those areas, he would set out to fix it by getting
the competing or interested parties together and
make sure that it was resolved before the full
approval. Now, he was an agronomist. Yeah. Did
that was an advantage to those of you in
agriculture? Probably, I think so. At one time, a
lot of the administrative channels were
controlled by agriculture or staffed by
agriculture people.
Another thing I overlooked was in the early days of
the department, it's kind of a little humorous
thing. I don't know if you're aware of this, but one
of the first people I met when I got here was Lou
Hodges. I mentioned him earlier being our
undergraduate advisor for many years. And Lou had
been an honor student at Rice. His father's a
faculty member there. And he had written to A&M
when he saw an announcement in the Houston Post, I
think it was, of A&M creating this new department
in park management. And he wrote a letter up here to
the admissions office saying that he would like to
come for a graduate degree, but his handwriting
has always been terrible. And they sent it to
Animal Science because they thought he was
interested in a graduate degree in pork
management,
rather than park management. So I thought that was
kind of a cute thing. Another humorous thing that
struck me was you were asking about faculty jokes
and tricks and things of that kind. For years, we
supported Texas Tech with that Southwestern Park
and Recreation Administration conference
training conference up at Texoma Lodge and uh... I
would take a bunch of students upper level
students and as many faculty as we could spare to go
up there for that three or four days and eventually
you know ran a good bit of the program but uh... our
fellas being Texans, outdoorsmen like to go
fishing and one time I came back into the room and
they were all there, we were having a little
conference. I went into the bathroom there took a
few minutes out, got up off the toilet and just let
out a shriek and everybody convulsed with
laughter because they had put about an 18 inch
white bass
in the toilet. So we did have a certain amount of
those practical jokes going on from time to time.
Something that's given me probably A continuing
pleasure over the last few years has been
something that I was allowed to try here that was a
real success and largely with the help of John
Blackburn that taught here for about 14 years and
is now director of community services down in
Bryan. He taught our facilities, park facilities
and maintenance courses and when they were going
to build the baseball complex. You may remember
there used to be a farm caretaker on that property
on little six acres there. And I got upset. with the
fact that while they were building that complex,
they had allowed the trucks and the diesel fuel
storage tanks and stuff under those big oak trees
over there. And I said, you know, I don't know if it
was somebody in the physical plant that I went and
complained to, you're going to kill all those
trees with that oil seepage around the tree roots.
At that time, I had an adjunct landscape architect
on deferred duty here from the National Park
Service named Dave Torello. And with him, we
developed a proposal to turn that little six acre
grove, oak grove, into a park. And the original
idea was to make a place where the roads wound, a
road wound through that oak grove It matured from
that or changed from that into the idea of getting
the physical plant to let us have the south end of
that parking lot and restripe it so that it would
accommodate up to 60-foot mobile home coaches
down the south end and up the east end of that, 44.
And then John Blackburn, when it was approved by
the physical plant, John Blackburn took that plan
implemented it and this physical plant put in
underground water and electricity for us and then
Pat Olson gave us $5,000 to build a shelter with ice
machines and coke machines and stuff and in the
picnic facilities and that that little thing
developed into a probably one of the best public
relations things that I know about on campus. We
ran it on a fee basis with a two-week maximum to stay
there. As I remember, it was $15.
And the idea was to make it available to parents and
families that wanted to come to ball games,
football games, baseball games, or to visit
students here. and give them a nice place to park
this because we really haven't got a first-class
RV park in town. And we opened them up July 1st for
reservations for the various weekends, kind of a
first-come, first-served. And I don't know how
many letters we got that had a $20 or a $50 and one
time a $100 bill with a letter from these folks
saying, this is the greatest thing A&M has ever
done. We appreciate so much being able to come and
stay overnight and stuff like this. After I
retired, Bonickson, who was the first department
head after me, said all of that kind of stuff,
maintenance and facilities, was not college
level activity. our students had built this stuff
so they were getting a lot of experience out of it.
But he said no, he didn't like that. So he turned it
back to the physical plant. But every time I go
around that corner on Welburn I get just a glow of
personal satisfaction to see that and I've often
thought sometime if it has to be after I'm dead I
hope they put the L. Reed designation on that
little corner because that's provided a lot of
pleasure for people that came to visit. That's a
splendid idea. Well, I wanted to do another one
with about 60 sites, RV sites over on the north
side, closer to where the peach orchard used to be.
Feeling that was convenient to the football
thing, too. But the research park took that out,
and then the airport entrance did a lot of that too,
because there weren't very many sites over there
that were level enough to take a big, you know, who
would have needed about eight acres. Anyhow, the
little one has worked and has been nice and
convenient there. The other thing I didn't
mention was that I guess I was thirty-six,
thirty-five or thirty-six when I came here to
start this thing. And because we had early on these
senior profs that were 15, 20 years older than I
was, a
lot of our grad students were older than I was,
which was kind of an unusual thing. Because we were
turning out a lot of Ph.D.s initially that were
mid-career and they'd either have enough time in
service with their agency to have a sabbatical or a
semester off or a year off and probably their only
opportunity to get a terminal degree. That's my
agenda. I'm caught up with you again. Let's see,
who were the key departmental staff people that
are worthy of words of appreciation,
secretaries, other key staff people in the
department? Do I need to name them by name? Well,
some of them will.
The first one probably sticks in my mind was Hazel
Grubbs. And her husband was in the physical plan.
And Hazel was a very good-looking woman.
I think was, I won't say a party girl, but enjoyed
good times and good events. And maybe our
department was a little too prosaic for her
because she went, who did she go eventually to work
for? She transferred to Jackie Sherrill? I
believe so. And went as his department secretary
before he left to go wherever it was, Alabama or
Mississippi. Mississippi State. Yeah. But Hazel
did a lot of the initial organizing and setting up.
When I got there, I had to lobby long and hard to get
her an electric typewriter. There were, you know,
it seems funny now, but I guess we are talking back
35 years, and we were into electric typewriters at
Michigan State. But not here. And they told me, you
should have been here just a few years ago. We
didn't hardly have any air conditioning on this
campus. And that
wasn't air conditioning at MSU either. But then we
didn't have the climate that they had here. It must
have been intolerable to have that kind of a
situation. What about other departmental staff
people, the implementers of policy?
We had such a tremendous number of people going
through all with their own personalities and
incarnations. It's
kind of hard to single them out, to ask who was doing
what. As you look back, given the clarity of
hindsight, are there any missed opportunities
for this program? things that might have been done
if we had known then what we know now?
I can probably think of several, given a moment.
One of the big disappointments to me was that when I
came here there was an institute of natural
biosciences, which is about as redundant as
saying pizza pie.
And there was a movement with Lineweber and
Schuster and Tier and I to develop that into an
actual school.
of natural resources, which is comparable to
those you mentioned, Cornell and Michigan State
and so on, Ohio State. Never could get that done.
Pretty difficult for four departments to
overcome the doubts and fears of eight or nine
other departments when you're carrying 30% of the
votes. And so we never were able to do that. And
without that visibility,
it was just impossible to do. And now they're doing
it again, I noticed. Over there, Bob Brown in
wildlife is chairing a committee to develop a
school. And I think they're going to have the same
difficulty we had, which is even as department
heads, we wanted a school, but we didn't want to
interpose a next higher level person between
ourselves and the dean. We wanted direct personal
access to the dean, but we wanted still some
figurehead that would to coalesce these four
departments into a unit. I think if they're able to
figure out how to do that, they'll probably get it
done. But it's...
You know, I love this school. I've spent my life
here, my career here. I'm loyal to it. But I
honestly think over the years, A&M has been its own
worst enemy.
You probably haven't heard that from anybody
else. How so? Where? Well, I was pretty close at one
time with Alexander, what was his first name, who
was a vice president of TU.
Lou, I'll be with you in a bit. Are you going to be
around a while?
He and I were on a panel with the National Research
Council doing a water quality study and they
wanted a recreational input into the water study.
So we were at Woods Hole for a while and talking
about the schools.
And I sensed a different flavor at Texas than here.
Maybe I was just beginning to be frustrated here. I
don't know. The same thing happened
with who?
I've lost the train of thought, Haskell.
missed opportunities, lost opportunities you
were talking about. Yeah, but between UT and here,
I know. We had for a while a Texas University fellow
that taught in the Lyndon School, Lyndon Johnson
School. I team taught a course with him, a graduate
course. And so that was the closest I ever became to
understanding some of the internal philosophies
of Texas University. And it seemed like, and I
can't remember his name, he was in our local Rotary
Club after he moved over here, that the attitude,
this is an oversimplification, at Texas was, hey,
that's never been done, let's do it. And the
attitude here was, hey, that's never been done. Is
somebody forcing us to do that?
That's a pretty rotten non-Christian knock
against my own school. But time and time again,
when something radically different was
proposed, it seemed to be, well, is somebody
pushing this? Have we got to do this? Or can we get
along without it? Do you remember any time when we
lost a real key person from Recreation and Parks?
We had them and then we lost them. Well, for a number
of reasons. We lost, we had a key person and he was a
young man when he died, Frank Suggett that I
mentioned. that had been my department head at
Michigan State. He didn't want to be an
administrator. He fought against it. And the dean
wouldn't let him out of it. He appointed me acting
head as the youngest, most junior instructor at
that time while I was working on my PhD, simply
because he didn't want to report anymore. And
that's how I became so close to the dean up there.
who gave me a lot of advice about coming to A&M. And
then Suggett came down here. And I hired Suggett
here as the first full prof. And he came down here.
That helped me more than anything because being
young and raw, I had two senior people a decade
older than me to kind of soften this brashness. And
Claire Gunn and Frank Suggett were so excellent
because they were polar. Whatever one of them
committed himself to first, the other one would
take the opposite side. And I had the advantage of
weighing those two things because they would
never agree on anything. And the loss, we lost him?
We lost Suggett because he was a great extension
man and he liked going out with these communities,
Oliver and Goliad or wherever. He'd go and talk to
people. He was... uh... so smart in an unorthodox
way of looking at things and he bought a motor coach
and he'd take students out on field trips to see at
first hand these things and he was driving back
from one of those and went to sleep at the wheel and
in Caldwell he ran off the road and hit an entrance
driveway culvert and rolled he laid there with a
broken back all night until somebody found him in
the morning and over that period of maybe a year
taking pain medicine and alcohol just took him
down. And finally, his wife and I had to commit him
for a short period of time. And he kind of wrote his
life story while he was locked up there, but he died
shortly afterwards. And I think that was a real
loss. We hired another person, Neal Cheek, who was
one of the most intelligent people we ever had on
the faculty. He came as a full professor. He was a
structural sociologist.
He was also the most divisive man I ever had on the
faculty because he would never take charge of
anything, but he wanted to be the power behind the
throne. Invisible, but directing what I was going
to Decide deviously so he was always organizing
Groups within the faculty to try and promote
something that he wanted to have done, but he
wouldn't come forward and Tell me what you know
argue his own case and he finally left and that was I
don't know if it was because of the department
situation or because he Finally washed up his
marriage with his wife and they split and then he
left So those were two real bright people that we
lost in the department. When you were getting
ready to make an important decision and you wanted
any kind of advice and counsel, to whom did you
turn?
I tried to turn to the whole faculty, but if it was
kind of a private thing, first of all, I think any
administrator needs a sounding board. Now who was
your sounding board? Lou Hodges. Lou Hodges,
partly because he'd been around so long, partly
because he was initially as a young man very shy,
and also because he was close-lipped and would
keep a confidence. But I think everybody needs
somebody, either a wife at home or somebody in the
department, that you can just unload on and rant
and rave and get angry and or seek sympathy or
wisdom or something you know not necessarily a
decision but just somebody to that'll listen to
you and you always had direct entree to the dean's
office oh yeah yeah and that was that was very good i
presume yeah yeah well let's see uh shift to humor
Do you remember any time the students ever
attempted any jokes or pranks in class? Like in my
class one day, a student wouldn't know if he was to
turn his tickets in with his final exam. And I said,
tickets? Tickets for what? Well, exam tickets. I
said, what do you mean? Last night, sir, a
sophomore was over in our core dorm selling $5
tickets to take final exams, and I bought a ticket.
Do you remember any good bull like that, the
students, anywhere?
Well, what are my initials? LMR, right? For years,
the students behind my back, but never let me know
it, was they'd call me Elmer. I don't know if that
was good or bad, but that was the code word for the
department head.
When we were in the horse barn, and we were very
close with our grad students and faculty, I taught
a graduate seminar on administrative style if you
want to call it that you know conduct behavior
whatever and I guess I really ragged the students
and I always tried to be one of the bananas in the
bunch okay but yeah you can't be Casco you know that
there's a mantle of of leadership that keeps
people at a distance, even if you want to be
friendly. In fact, while we were in the horse barn,
a big fellow by the name of Steve Smith came around
the corner and ran into me, and we kind of both
apologized at the same instant. Our grad students
were upstairs in that loft, in that horse barn, and
he apologized and turned on his heel and ran up the
stairs and I heard him shouting to the other grad
students as he ran up the stairs, I called him Les, I
called him Les. There was that little bit of
familiarity that I guess wasn't used there. But I
had one student in that group and there were about
10 of them that were really close and thick. Some
were Texans, some were not, played golf a lot
together. And this particular guy has been head
of, well, he's not now, but he was head of the
University of Arizona department, A.J. Haley,
Arthur Haley, for about 14 years, and he built a
real fine program out there. Anyway, he's a black
Irishman from some Quincy, Massachusetts, a
suburb of Boston, I guess, and he's as Irish, black
Irish as you can get. irreverent as hell and I had
been talking a previous seminar night about the
importance of demeanor if you want to be regarded
as well regarded in a meeting you you sit forward
like you got a bad case of piles you don't slouch
back and you know all this kind of stuff And dress is
important, and tie is important, and how you speak
is important, and these things, not only the
message you're carrying, but how you present it.
Well, the next seminar class, I came into the
conference room we had, which held about 15 or 18 of
these grad student guys, because at that time we
were all male. There was just a Twitter. Everybody
was Twittering. And I looked around, what the heck
is going on here? And A.J. Haley was dressed in the
most god-awful costume that you ever saw. I just
can't describe it. It looked like Hatfield and
McCoy hayseed. He had a big old floppy felt hat down
here and a great big peacock feather in it. I mean,
he was just going to put me on. And that's one of
those times where it just brought down the house.
But we used that to pretty good effect. There's
another time, and this is not so funny, about the
time that long hair was coming into fashion. And
one of the grad students I had, he was real bright,
and I'd brought him down from the University of
Michigan. He'd finished a good master's there,
and I wanted him to do a PhD with us. And he came out
with this long bearded thing. And it happened that
that semester he was redheaded and he had a red
beard. And he was really testing me and, you know, I
can have hair if I wanted and you, you know, you
can't do anything about it. And so we were
scheduling a symposium and bringing in a number of
national people as lead speakers in this thing, a
spring symposium. And so I was giving out
assignments to different ones, who could go to the
airport and pick up one plane load at a certain time
and who would drive a car and who would do this and
who would do that. And this Jim, after all the
assignments were made, he said, and what do you
want me to do? I said, I want you to stay out of sight.
He said, what are you talking about? I said, I don't
want you around these people looking like you do
with that beard. And he said, that's my
prerogative to wear a beard. And I said, it's my
prerogative to decide that I don't want you around
those people. Well, I guess that's not very good of
me to say that, but... That's the way I felt. I agree
with you. I agree with you. Let's see. Any personal
experiences where you, particularly as a
newcomer, had trouble pronouncing a Texas place
or person or a name? Yeah. Yeah. And I want to add
another thing about that, too. Well, the first
thing I want to do is this young fellow that I hired
as the first instructor, Carol Dowell, from He had
been community parks director in Bossier City and
was now at LSU. He came over and he took me on some of
my early wanderings around Texas. One day we
decided to attend, we made arrangements to attend
a bi-state meeting in Alexandria, Louisiana.
This was just a couple months after I'd been here.
took my big station wagon that I still had, drove
out east across Conroe and Huntsville and Lake
Livingston, cut and shoot. First time I'd seen cut
and shoot. And we got over there somewhere in East
Texas, decided to stop and get a drink,
non-alcoholic.